THEY MOVE AS IF OBEYING
A SINGLE COMMAND
AS A SINGLE
ORGANISM,
BUT THERE IS NOBODY
WHO LEADS THEM.
THEY ARE MANY,
BUT THEY ARE ONE:
A SWARM.
TRANSLATOR: THE
MOST FASCINATING THING
ABOUT SWARMS
IS THEIR BEAUTY.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT FOR US TO
UNDERSTAND A SYSTEM WITHOUT
ANY HIERARCHY OR CENTRAL
CONTROL BECAUSE ALL OF OUR
SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS SEEM TO
IMPLY SOME KIND OF HIERARCHY.
TRANSLATOR: HOW DO ANTS
MANAGE TO BUILD A BRIDGE?
THERE IS NO ORDER TELLING
ANTS TO BUILD A BRIDGE
OR HOW TO DO IT, BUT
THEY STILL MANAGE IT.
TRANSLATOR: I'M INTERESTED IN
HOW MASSES BEHAVE GENERALLY
AND WHETHER THIS CAN
LEAD TO A DESIRABLE RESULT.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT'S MADE SWARM INTELLIGENCE
OR COLLECTIVE
INTELLIGENCE SEEM MYSTERIOUS
IS THAT IT CLEARLY
OPERATES IN A DIFFERENT WAY
FROM THE ORGANIZATIONS
THAT WE'RE USED TO.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN
IT OPERATES BY MAGIC.
IT MEANS THAT IT'S DIFFERENT
AND THAT WE NEED TO
LEARN TO UNDERSTAND
HOW IT WORKS.
SWARMS ARE
DIFFERENT.
THE INDIVIDUALS
ARE SMALL AND WEAK,
BUT AS A WHOLE A SWARM
HAS INCREDIBLE ABILITIES.
SCIENTISTS SPEAK OF
"SWARM INTELLIGENCE".
IT COMES FROM
THE COLLABORATION
OF THOUSANDS
OF INDIVIDUALS.
BUT CAN THERE BE INTELLIGENCE
WITHOUT CONSCIOUSNESS?
SCIENTISTS ARE TRYING
TO UNDERSTAND
THE MYSTERIOUS
BEHAVIOR OF SWARMS.
WE COULD LEARN
FROM THEM.
WHAT SEEMS ALIEN AND
DIFFERENT AT FIRST GLANCE
COULD POSSIBLY
EVEN BE VERY HUMAN.
STURNUS VULGARIS -
THE COMMON STARLING.
FOR ROME'S INHABITANTS
AN ANNUAL NUISANCE.
GIGANTIC SWARMS OVER WINTER
BETWEEN OCTOBER AND FEBRUARY
OUTSIDE OF
ROME'S GATES.
AT NIGHT THEY LOOK FOR PLACES
TO ROOST IN THE WARM CITY
MUCH TO THE CHAGRIN
OF ITS INHABITANTS.
THE DAILY SPECTACLE
ABOVE THE HOLY CITY
LASTS AROUND
HALF AN HOUR.
THESE SWARMS CONTAIN
UP TO 50,000 INDIVIDUALS.
THEY CREATE FORMATIONS
AND BREAK THEM UP AGAIN
AS IF LED BY AN
INVISIBLE HAND.
IT'S A SPECTACLE OF
THE HIGHEST PERFECTION
BUT THERE IS NO
CHOREOGRAPHER.
THE SWARM IS CONSTANTLY
CHANGING ITS SHAPE AND DENSITY,
BUT STILL IT
STAYS TOGETHER.
THERE MUST BE
SOMETHING ALLOWING
THIS EXTRAORDINARY
COHESION,
A MECHANISM CAUSING THE
SWARM TO ORGANIZE ITSELF.
THERE WERE MANY
THEORIES AND MODELS
BUT VERY FEW DATA TO
COMPARE MODELS WITH.
SO BASICALLY EVERYONE COULD
COME UP WITH A NEW MODEL
AND EVERYONE WOULD BE
HAPPY ABOUT THAT BECAUSE
THERE WAS NO INTEGRAL
DATA TO COMPARE WITH.
SO WE WANTED TO
PROVIDE THE FIRST DATA
ON LARGE GROUPS OF
ANIMALS IN THREE DIMENSIONS
TO VALIDATE OR
INVALIDATE THE MODELS.
HOW DOES AN INDIVIDUAL
BIRD HAVE TO BEHAVE
SO THAT THE RESULT IS A
PERFECTLY FUNCTIONING WHOLE,
A SWARM THAT CAN'T
BE RIPPED APART,
NOT EVEN BY
SEVERE DISRUPTIONS?
THE PLAN IS TO ANSWER
THIS QUESTION ON A ROOF
NEAR ROME'S
TERMINI STATION.
HERE PHYSICISTS FROM SAPIENZA
UNIVERSITY WANT TO UNCOVER
THE SECRET OF THE STARLINGS
WITH A NEW METHOD.
THEY WANT TO PHOTOGRAPH
THE SWARM WITH SEVERAL
SYNCHRONIZED CAMERAS
FROM DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES.
THEY HOPE TO CREATE THE
FIRST THREE-DIMENSIONAL
IMAGES OF THESE
HUGE STARLING SWARMS.
USING THESE PHOTOGRAPHS
THE SCIENTISTS WANT TO SOLVE
A PROBLEM NOBODY HAS
YET BEEN ABLE TO ANSWER.
WHAT DO THE INDIVIDUAL BIRDS IN
THE SWARM USE AS ORIENTATION?
THEY WANT TO FIND OUT HOW FROM
COUNTLESS INDIVIDUAL ACTIONS
A SYSTEM IS CREATED
THAT CONTROLS ITSELF
AND MAKES
COLLECTIVE DECISIONS.
TRANSLATOR: SWARMS ARE A
PHENOMENA WHERE INDIVIDUALS
COME TOGETHER IN LARGE
NUMBERS AND WHERE THOSE
INDIVIDUALS ORIENT
THEMSELVES VERY STRONGLY
TO THE OTHERS IN
THEIR IMMEDIATE VICINITY.
THE PERFECT SYNCHRONIZATION
OF THE MOVEMENTS
IS AN AESTHETIC
SPECTACLE FOR US,
BUT FOR THE
MEMBERS OF THE SWARM
IT'S A MATTER
OF SURVIVAL.
TRANSLATOR: ANIMALS SWARM
FOR DIFFERENT REASONS
AND ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT IS
PROTECTION
AGAINST PREDATORS.
THE RISK OF GETTING EATEN
BY A PREDATOR IS REDUCED
THE GREATER THE
SIZE OF THE SWARM.
ANOTHER ADVANTAGE CAN BE WHEN
SEARCHING FOR FOOD BECAUSE
INDIVIDUALS GET INFORMATION
FROM OTHERS IN THE SWARM.
THE SWARM STAYS
TOGETHER WITHOUT ANYONE
ORCHESTRATING THE MOVEMENTS
OF THE INDIVIDUALS IN IT.
IT FORMS A UNIT THAT IS GREATER
THAN THE SUM OF ITS PARTS.
BUT THE SWARM ALSO HAS
TO "ACT" ALL THE TIME.
IT HAS TO REACT TO NEW
SITUATIONS AND MAKE DECISIONS
SUCH AS WHETHER TO
MOVE LEFT OR RIGHT.
UNLIKE PACKS, SWARMS
HAVE NO LEAD ANIMAL
THAT ALL THE
OTHERS FOLLOW.
ALL INDIVIDUALS
ARE EQUAL.
BUT HOW DO SWARMS
MAKE DECISIONS
IF NOBODY IS
IN CHARGE?
THIS IS THE QUESTION THAT HAS
BEEN OCCUPYING BEHAVIORAL
SCIENTIST JENS KRAUSE
IN LEEDS FOR A LONG TIME.
TRANSLATOR: THE SWARM
ORGANIZES ITSELF AND CAN
MAKE A DECISION ABOUT
THE DIRECTION COLLECTIVELY.
THERE DON'T HAVE
TO BE LEADERS
TO MAKE THESE
DECISIONS FOR THE SWARM.
THE SWARM ORGANIZES
ITSELF AND CAN AS A RESULT
MAKE DECISIONS
ABOUT DIRECTION.
BUT HOW ARE THESE
DECISIONS ACTUALLY MADE?
BECAUSE IF YOU WATCH
A SWARM IT LOOKS AS IF
THEY ALL MOVE AT THE
SAME TIME, AS IF IT WEREN'T
THE PRODUCT OF MANY
INDIVIDUAL DECISIONS.
TO UNDERSTAND THIS
DECISION MAKING PROCESS
IS ABSOLUTELY
FASCINATING TO US.
EVERY INDIVIDUAL IN THE
SWARM MAKES A DECISION.
NO SINGLE ANIMAL HAS THE
OVERVIEW OF THE WHOLE.
THE DECISIONS OF
THE INDIVIDUAL ANIMALS
PRODUCE THE BEHAVIOR
OF THE ENTIRE SWARM
AND THIS BEHAVIOR CAN BE
VITAL FOR THE INDIVIDUALS.
WHEN A
PREDATOR ATTACKS
A MEMBER OF A SWARM HAS
A MUCH HIGHER CHANCE
OF SURVIVAL THAN AN
ISOLATED INDIVIDUAL.
ONE OF THE KEY QUESTIONS
FOR US WAS TO FIND HOW
THEY CAN STICK TOGETHER
IN SUCH LARGE GROUPS WHEN
THEY'RE HEAVILY PERTURBED
BY A FALCON, FOR EXAMPLE.
SO STAYING TOGETHER
FOR THEM IS CRUCIAL.
BUT THEY HAVE
TO ACHIEVE THIS
IN THE FACE OF VERY
BIG PERTURBATION.
LIKE A CHANGE IN
DENSITY, SHAPE, AND SO ON.
SO WE WANT TO UNDERSTAND,
WHAT KIND OF INTERACTION
BETWEEN THE BIRDS, WHAT
KIND OF COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN THE BIRDS COULD
GIVE RISE TO THIS INCREDIBLE
CAPABILITY OF STAYING
TOGETHER OF THE GROUP?
ANDREA CAVAGNA AND
HIS TEAM HAVE MANAGED
FOR THE FIRST TIME TO
DEPICT A SWARM OF SEVERAL
THOUSAND INDIVIDUALS IN A
THREE DIMENSIONAL IMAGE.
THE SCIENTISTS ARE
AMAZED BY WHAT THEY FIND.
THE BIRDS BEHAVE
COMPLETELY DIFFERENTLY
FROM WHAT HAD
BEEN ASSUMED TO DATE.
BEFORE OUR RESULTS THERE WERE
MANY MODELS AND THEORIES.
AND ALL MODELS ASSUMED
THAT BIRDS INTERACTED
IN A PURELY
MATRIC WAY.
THIS MEANS THAT EACH
BIRD IS INTERACTING
WITH ALL BIRDS WITHIN
A GIVEN FIXED RADIUS.
AND THIS CAN BE ONE METER,
TWO METERS, WHATEVER.
IF THIS IS TRUE, THEN YOU SEE
THAT IN A HIGH DENSITY SITUATION
YOU'RE ALSO INTERACTING WITH
A LARGE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS.
WHERE HERE PERHAPS YOU
HAVE JUST ONE INDIVIDUAL
INTERACTING
WITH YOU.
SO THIS IS NOT VERY GOOD TO
KEEP COHESION BECAUSE WHAT
THE FLOCKS ARE DOING ALL THE
TIME IS TO CHANGE THEIR DENSITY
LIKE BALLOONS WHICH INFLATE
AND DEFLATE CONTINUOUSLY.
SO WHAT WE
DISCOVERED IS THAT
THEY DO NOT
INTERACT IN THIS WAY.
SO WHAT THEY DO INSTEAD IS
THAT EACH INDIVIDUAL KEEPS
UNDER CONTROL A FIXED NUMBER
OF INDIVIDUALS OF NEIGHBORS,
IRRESPECTIVE OF
WHERE THEY ARE.
WE FIND THEY INTERACT WITH SIX,
SEVEN NEIGHBORS, SO IN THIS CASE
THIS INDIVIDUAL HERE IS
INTERACTING WITH THESE SIX GUYS,
AND THEN IN THIS CASE IT IS
INTERACTING WITH THESE GUYS
IRRESPECTIVE OF WHERE THEY
ARE AND HOW DISTANT THEY ARE.
SO IN THE LOW DENSITY FLOCK
THEY WILL BE PRETTY FAR AWAY.
IN THE HIGH DENSITY FLOCK
THEY WILL BE FAIRLY CLOSE.
WHERE IN THIS CASE
THEY'RE RATHER DISTANT
BECAUSE OF THE DENSITY,
AND SO YOU SEE
IT'S COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
FROM A MATRIC WAY OF INTERACT.
SO IT ISN'T THE DISTANCE THAT IS
CRUCIAL FOR A SWARM'S COHESION.
IT'S THE NUMBER OF NEIGHBORS
WITH WHICH A BIRD COMMUNICATES.
THE SIMPLE BEHAVIOR
OF THE INDIVIDUALS
RESULTS IN THE COMPLEX
BEHAVIOR OF THE SWARM.
THIS ALLOWS SWARMS TO ADAPT
TO EVER CHANGING SITUATIONS
AND ALSO TO SOLVE COMPLICATED
ORGANIZATIONAL PROBLEMS
SUCH AS THOSE OF THE RED
HARVESTER ANT IN ARIZONA.
THEY ARE NOT EVEN A CENTIMETER
IN LENGTH AND THEY ARE BLIND.
BUT THERE ARE
MANY OF THEM.
A SINGLE COLONY OF
RED HARVESTER ANTS
NUMBERS TEN TO TWELVE
THOUSAND WORKERS.
IT TAKES A SECOND GLANCE
TO RECOGNIZE THEIR NESTS,
FLATTENED MOUNDS PROTRUDING
GENTLY OVER THE DESERT FLOOR.
RED HARVESTER ANTS
MAINLY EAT PLANT SEEDS.
BUT ONLY SOME OF THE ANTS' WORK
IS RELATED TO GATHERING FOOD.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER TASKS
THAT NEED DOING IN A COLONY.
SOME KEEP THE
NEST IN ORDER.
OTHERS TAKE CARE
OF THE YOUNG.
AND YET OTHERS
REMOVE RUBBISH.
ALL OF THESE ACTIVITIES
HAVE TO BE COORDINATED
TO ALLOW THE
COLLECTIVE TO SURVIVE.
NO INDIVIDUAL ANT
HAS THE OVERVIEW
OVER THE CONDITION
OF THE ENTIRE COLONY.
NOT EVEN
THE QUEEN.
WHEN HUMANS SET OUT TO
DO SOMETHING COLLECTIVELY,
EVERY PERSON
HAS SOME IDEA
OF WHAT THE GOAL IS
OF THE WHOLE GROUP.
AND WHAT'S AMAZING ABOUT THE
WAY THAT AN ANT COLONY WORKS,
THERE'S NO ANT IN THERE THAT
SAYS "WE NEED MORE FOOD,
WE NEED TO
WORK HARDER".
EACH INDIVIDUAL, EACH
COMPONENT USES ONLY
LOCAL INFORMATION AND
MAKES VERY LOCAL DECISIONS
AND IN THE AGGREGATE
THE WHOLE SYSTEM WORKS.
BUT NO PARTICIPANT
IN THE SYSTEM
UNDERSTANDS WHAT
NEEDS TO BE DONE.
THE COMPLEX DIVISION OF LABOR
OF THE RED HARVESTER ANTS
IS A MYSTERY DEBORAH GORDON
HAS BEEN INVESTIGATING
FOR DECADES.
TOGETHER WITH UNDERGRADUATE
AND DOCTORAL STUDENTS
SHE LEAVES HER LABORATORY
IN STANFORD UNIVERSITY
EVERY SUMMER TO SET UP
CAMP IN SOUTHERN ARIZONA.
HERE, CLOSE TO THE MEXICAN
BORDER, SHE IS RESEARCHING HOW
COLONIES OF RED HARVESTER ANTS
ORGANIZE THEIR LIVES AND WORK.
UNLIKE THE MYTH OF
THE EVER BUSY ANT,
THE ANT COLONY IS NOT
EQUALLY ACTIVE EVERY DAY.
A COLONY LIKE ANY
ORGANISM HAS TO RESPOND
TO A CHANGING ENVIRONMENT.
THINGS HAPPEN.
ONE DAY THERE'S MORE FOOD,
ONE DAY THERE'S A STORM
AND THE NEST HAS
TO BE REPAIRED.
AND SOMEHOW THE
COLONY HAS TO CHANGE
THE NUMBERS OF ANTS
WORKING ON EACH TASK
IN A WAY THAT'S APPROPRIATE
FOR THE CURRENT SITUATION.
AND THE QUESTION I ASK
ABOUT HARVESTER ANTS IS
HOW DOES THE
COLONY DO IT?
IF NOBODY IS SAYING, OKAY,
WE NEED MORE OVER THERE
FIXING THE NEST OR WE NEED MORE
OVER THERE COLLECTING FOOD,
AND YET SOMEHOW THE
COLONY DOES ADJUST
ITS EFFORT TO DIFFERENT
TASKS; SO MY QUESTION IS
HOW DO THEY DO IT WITHOUT
ANY CENTRAL CONTROL?
NOBODY TELLS THE ANT
COLONY WHAT TO DO,
BUT IT STILL ACTS AS A
COORDINATED SYSTEM.
IT IS THE COLLECTIVE
THAT DECIDES.
BUT HOW ARE DECISIONS
MADE THAT ARE SUPPORTED BY
ALL OF THE MEMBERS
OF THE GROUP?
DOES IT MATTER HOW
LARGE THE GROUP IS?
IN ORDER TO FIND THAT OUT, JENS
KRAUSE BROUGHT IN ASSISTANTS.
TRANSLATOR: WE DEVELOPED
THE ROBO-FISH IN ORDER
TO HAVE TOTAL CONTROL
OVER ONE FISH IN A SWARM.
THIS HAS ALWAYS
BEEN MY DREAM.
I CAME UP WITH THE IDEA
WHEN I WAS 18 OR 19.
YOU CAN SEE HOW A
SWARM MAKES DECISIONS,
BUT YOU DON'T KNOW WHICH
FISH INITIATED THIS DECISION.
BUT WITH THE ROBOFISH WE HAVE
A WAY OF CREATING A DECISION.
WE CAN DECIDE WHEN A
FISH TURNS LEFT OR RIGHT.
AND WE CAN THEN SEE HOW
THE REST OF THE SWARM
REACTS TO
THIS DECISION.
THIS GIVES US A VERY CONTROLLED
SITUATION IN THE AQUARIUM.
THE ROBOFISH IS CONTROLLED
THROUGH A MAGNET
UNDER THE
AQUARIUM.
THE REAL STICKLEBACKS ARE
SUSPICIOUS OF THE STRANGER
AT FIRST, BUT THEN THEY ACCEPT
IT AS A MEMBER OF THE SWARM
DESPITE ITS
STRANGE BEHAVIOR.
TRANSLATOR: THE ROBOFISH
MOVES THE WAY WE TELL IT TO.
A NORMAL LIVING FISH WOULD
MAKE A DIRECTIONAL DECISION,
AND IF OTHERS
DIDN'T FOLLOW SUIT
IT WOULD QUICKLY RETURN
TO THE SWARM AND ADAPT.
BUT THE ROBOFISH
DOESN'T ADAPT.
THAT'S AN UNFAMILIAR
SITUATION FOR THE OTHER FISH.
MEMBERS OF THE SWARM
DON'T USUALLY MAKE
SUCH EXTREME
DECISIONS.
THEY TEND TO THEN FOLLOW
THIS INDIVIDUAL BECAUSE
THEY ASSUME IT MUST HAVE
VERY CLEAR INFORMATION
WHICH IT IS ACTING
ON AT THAT MOMENT.
AND THIS HAS A VERY STRONG
INFLUENCE ON THE OTHERS.
THE RESEARCHERS WANT
TO CONDUCT AN EXPERIMENT
TO FIND OUT HOW INDIVIDUAL
DECISIONS BECOME COLLECTIVE.
THE EXPERIMENT INVOLVES
A SWARM MAKING DECISIONS.
IT HAS TO CHOOSE THE BEST OPTION
WHEN PRESENTED WITH SEVERAL.
TO STOP IT FROM BEING TOO EASY,
THE ROBOFISH IS MADE TO INCITE
THE OTHERS TO A BEHAVIOR THEY
WOULDN'T NORMALLY PURSUE.
IT IS ATTEMPTING TO LEAD
THEM AWAY FROM THE WORMS.
AT FIRST THE TEST
SWARM IS TOO SMALL.
ONLY TWO FISH ARE IN THE
AQUARIUM WITH THE ROBOFISH.
THE ROBOFISH EASILY
MANAGES TO MOVE THE SWARM
AWAY FROM THE
FOOD SOURCE.
THE SWARM HAS ALLOWED ITSELF TO
MAKE AN UNFAVORABLE DECISION.
THE EXPERIMENT IS GOING
INTO THE SECOND ROUND.
NOW IT IS ONE
AGAINST TEN.
THE ROBOFISH WILL BEHAVE
IN EXACTLY THE SAME WAY
AS IN THE FIRST
EXPERIMENT.
THE QUESTION IS
WHETHER A LARGER SWARM
IS JUST AS EASILY
MANIPULATED AS A SMALL ONE.
THE LARGER SWARM ALSO FOLLOWS
THE ROBOFISH TO THE FOOD,
BUT IT CAN'T GET
THEM TO MOVE AWAY.
THE SWARM HAS OVERRIDDEN
THE DECISION OF THE ROBOFISH
AND MADE A DIFFERENT,
MORE INTELLIGENT CHOICE.
TRANSLATOR: IN A SITUATION
WHERE A LEADER FISH
MAKES A BAD DECISION, THE
SWARM WILL NOT NECESSARILY
FOLLOW IT UNLESS THIS
DECISION IS SUPPORTED
BY ONE OR TWO OTHER
FISH WHICH MAKES IT
MORE CONVINCING FOR
THE REST OF THE SWARM.
WE TALK ABOUT
THRESHOLD VALUES.
A CERTAIN PERCENTAGE OF
THE SWARM HAS TO PERFORM
THE BEHAVIOR FOR
THE REST TO FOLLOW.
ONE INDIVIDUAL
ISN'T ALWAYS ENOUGH.
THAT MAKES SENSE BECAUSE
INDIVIDUALS CAN MAKE BAD
DECISIONS AND THIS PRINCIPLE OF
SOCIAL RANKING PREVENTS THAT,
WHICH IS A FORM OF
SWARM INTELLIGENCE.
SWARMS BEHAVE MORE
INTELLIGENTLY THAN INDIVIDUALS.
THEIR ABILITY TO SOLVE
PROBLEMS AND MAKE DECISIONS
CAN BE CLASSED
AS INTELLIGENCE.
IT'S AN INTELLIGENCE INDIVIDUAL
CREATURES DON'T HAVE.
THIS INTELLIGENCE IS
CREATED AS A RESULT OF
THE COORDINATED BEHAVIOR
OF THE INDIVIDUALS.
THIS SWARM INTELLIGENCE
MUST ALSO BE WHAT ALLOWS
THE ANT COLONY TO
ADAPT ITS ACTIVITIES
TO THE DAY'S REQUIREMENTS
AND TO DECIDE WHETHER
IT IS A GOOD DAY
FOR FORAGING OR NOT.
BEFORE THE FORAGERS OF
THE COLONY BECOME ACTIVE,
PATROLLERS EXPLORE
THE TERRAIN FOR FOOD.
IT IS ONLY WHEN
THEY COME BACK
THAT THE OTHERS
START BRINGING IT IN.
MOST ANTS CAN'T SEE.
THEY OPERATE
MOSTLY BY SMELL.
AND ANTS ARE COATED
WITH A LAYER OF GREASE
THAT CARRIES THE
COLONY'S SPECIFIC ODOR.
AND THAT'S HOW ANY ANT
OR BEE OR WASP KNOWS
WHEN IT MEETS ANOTHER
ANT IF IT'S A NEST MATE.
BECAUSE EACH NEST HAS ITS
OWN CHARACTERISTIC ODOR.
AND THEN WE FOUND THAT,
IN HARVESTER ANTS AT LEAST,
EACH TASK HAS
ITS OWN ODOR.
SO AN ANT THAT SPENDS A LOT OF
TIME OUTSIDE, LIKE A FORAGER,
ENDS UP SMELLING DIFFERENT
FROM AN ANT IN THE NEST.
A FORAGER RECOGNIZES
A RETURNING PATROLLER
BY HER SCENT.
BUT THAT'S NOT ENOUGH TO
CAUSE HER TO LEAVE THE COLONY
BECAUSE THE COLONY
FIRST HAS TO CALCULATE
WHETHER IT IS SAFE ENOUGH
TO DEPLOY FORAGERS.
WORKING IN THE DESERT
IS PERILOUS, AFTER ALL.
WHAT TELLS THESE ANTS
WHEN THE RIGHT TIME
TO GATHER
FOOD HAS COME?
TO FIND THAT OUT, THE
SCIENTISTS USE THE SCENTS
OF DIFFERENT
WORKERS.
THE SCENTS ARE APPLIED TO
SMALL BEADS THE SIZE OF ANTS.
THEY ARE FAKE ANTS DESIGNED
TO TRICK THE REAL ONES.
GORDON AND HER COLLEAGUES
WANT TO FIND OUT WHAT
MECHANISM THE COLONY USES TO
ORGANIZE ITS SEARCH FOR FOOD.
AS EXPECTED, ONLY THE BEADS
WITH THE PATROLLER'S SCENT
STIMULATE THE WAITING FORAGERS
TO BEGIN SEARCHING FOR FOOD.
BUT IT TAKES ANOTHER MORE
SOPHISTICATED MECHANISM
TO EXPLAIN WHY ON SOME DAYS
THOUSANDS, BUT ON OTHERS
ONLY A FEW DOZEN OR NO
FORAGERS SET OFF TO WORK.
WE FOUND THAT FORAGERS WAIT
FOR PATROLLERS TO COME BACK
BEFORE THEY GO
OUT TO FORAGE.
AND THE FORAGERS WON'T GO
OUT UNTIL THEY MEET A PATROLLER
AT A RATE OF ABOUT
ONE PER TEN SECONDS.
SO WE TRIED DROPPING IN THE
BEADS TOO FAST AND TOO SLOW,
AND IT HAS TO BE AT AN
INTERVAL OF ABOUT TEN SECONDS
AND THAT MUST BE
HOW LONG AN ANT
CAN REMEMBER WHAT
HAPPENED TO IT.
IF AN ANT MEETS ANOTHER,
SAY, EVERY 45 SECONDS
OR EVERY 60 SECONDS, IT'S
AS IF IT NEVER HAPPENED.
IT'S FORGOTTEN THAT IT
EVER MET THE OTHER ANT.
ONLY WHEN SUFFICIENT
PATROLLERS RETURN SAFELY
TO THE NEST DO THE
FORAGERS SET TO WORK.
THAT'S HOW, UNLIKE
AN INDIVIDUAL ANT,
THE COLONY
KNOWS WHETHER
IT'S A GOOD DAY TO
SEARCH FOR FOOD.
THE MORE I STUDY ANTS
THE LESS I THINK IS GOING ON
IN THE MIND
OF AN ANT.
SO THE SYSTEM HAS BECOME
VERY FAMILIAR TO ME,
BUT WHAT IT'S LIKE TO
BE AN ANT SEEMS MORE
AND MORE DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT IT'S LIKE TO BE ME.
SIMPLE UNITS THAT, AS A GROUP,
FORM AN INTELLIGENT WHOLE.
IT'S AN INTELLIGENCE THAT ISN'T
CONTROLLED BY A CENTRAL BRAIN
BUT BY AN ACTING
TOGETHER OF MANY
NON INTELLIGENT
INDIVIDUALS.
THE SWARM'S RECIPE FOR
SUCCESS FASCINATES BIOLOGISTS.
BUT IN RECENT YEARS IT HAS
ALSO CAPTURED THE ATTENTION
OF ENGINEERS
AND CYBERNETICISTS.
THEIR IDEA IS TO APPLY
SWARM BEHAVIOR TO MACHINES.
THIS IS THE BIRTH
OF ROBOT SWARMS.
TRANSLATOR: THE SCIENCE
OF ROBOTICS IS INTERESTED
IN SWARM INTELLIGENCE
BECAUSE IT MAKES IT POSSIBLE
TO CONTROL MANY ROBOTS
WITHOUT CENTRAL COMMAND.
IN THE 80'S MANY ENGINEERS
ASKED THEMSELVES
HOW TO CONSTRUCT ROBOTS
THAT WOULD ALSO FUNCTION
RELIABLY IN A CONSTANTLY
CHANGING ENVIRONMENT.
THE TRADITIONAL
METHODS IN ROBOTICS
PROVED UNSUCCESSFUL
IN THIS REGARD.
THE ROBOTS WERE EXTREMELY
SUSCEPTIBLE TO PROBLEMS
AND HARDLY ABLE TO
REACT IN REAL TIME.
THAT'S WHY IN THE 90'S
PEOPLE STARTED TO GO DOWN
A COMPLETELY NEW
ROUTE IN ROBOTICS.
INSTEAD OF BUILDING A SINGLE,
MORE COMPLICATED ROBOT
THE IDEA WAS BORN TO
BUILD ROBOT SWARMS
CONSISTING OF INDIVIDUALS
WITH A VERY SIMPLE BEHAVIOR
BUT WITH THE ABILITY TO
SOLVE PROBLEMS TOGETHER.
THE BIOLOGIST, GUY
THERAULAZ, IS RESEARCHING
HOW INSECT SWARMS
SOLVE COMPLEX PROBLEMS
AND HOW THE STRATEGIES
USED BY ANTS
CAN BE APPLIED TO
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.
TRANSLATOR: THE BEHAVIOR
OF ANTS IS VERY SIMPLE.
THEY ARE
LIVING MACHINES.
OF COURSE THEY'RE
VERY COMPLEX MACHINES,
BUT THEIR BEHAVIOR
IS VERY SIMPLE.
EVERY ANT ONLY
HAS A REPERTOIRE
OF AROUND 20 DIFFERENT
BEHAVIORAL PATTERNS.
THERE IS ONE SIMPLE BUT
INGENIOUS ANT STRATEGY
THAT HAS INSPIRED
ROBOT DESIGNERS
MORE THAN
ANY OTHER:
THE METHOD DIFFERENT ANTS
USE TO EXPLOIT A FOOD SOURCE
AS EFFICIENTLY
AS POSSIBLE.
THIS EXPERIMENT
SHOWS HOW IT WORKS.
A COLONY OF BLACK GARDEN
ANTS IS SUPPOSED TO CHOOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE
SHORTER OF TWO ROUTES
BETWEEN THE NEST
AND THE FOOD SOURCE.
WHICH ROUTE THE ANTS PICK
FIRST IS COMPLETELY RANDOM.
NO INDIVIDUAL CAN ESTIMATE
OR EVEN MEASURE ITS LENGTH.
AT FIRST IT LOOKS CHAOTIC
BUT AFTER JUST A FEW MINUTES
SOMETHING
INCREDIBLE HAPPENS.
THE COLONY
DECIDES COLLECTIVELY
TO OPT FOR THE SHORTER
OF THE TWO ROUTES.
THIS IS MADE POSSIBLE THROUGH
A SPECIAL INFORMATION SYSTEM.
TRANSLATOR: ANTS, AS
INSECTS, CAN TAKE IN COMPLEX
CHEMICAL INFORMATION
KNOWN AS PHEROMONES.
THIS GIVES THEM ACCESS TO SIGNS
WE, AS HUMANS, CAN'T READ.
ANTS GIVE OFF
PHEROMONES,
SCENTS THAT
EVAPORATE WITH TIME.
THEY FOLLOW
A SIMPLE RULE.
WHEN IN DOUBT
THEY TAKE THE ROUTE
THAT HAS MORE
PHEROMONES.
THIS RULE TRIGGERS A SIMPLE
BUT INGENIOUS MECHANISM.
ANTS THAT JUST HAPPEN TO
TAKE THE SHORTER ROUTE FIRST
RETURN FASTER.
THE SHORTER ROUTE GETS A HIGHER
PHEROMONE CONCENTRATION
SO MORE AND MORE ANTS SETTING
OFF CHOOSE THE SHORTER ROUTE.
TRANSLATOR: THIS
IS A REAL EXAMPLE
OF COLLECTIVE
INTELLIGENCE.
BECAUSE INDIVIDUAL
ANTS AREN'T INCAPABLE
OF MEASURING THE
LENGTH OF THE ROUTE.
THEY CAN ONLY DO THIS TOGETHER,
SO IT'S A COLLECTIVE PHENOMENON.
LIKE THE ANTS, THE MINI
ROBOTS ARE RATHER HELPLESS
AS INDIVIDUALS.
THEY ONLY POSSESS
A FEW SENSORS
AND A FEW
BASIC BEHAVIORS.
LIKE THE ANTS, THE ROBOT
SWARM HAS TO FIND
THE SHORTEST LINE
BETWEEN TWO POINTS.
FIRST THE ROBOTS SEARCH
THE NETWORK RANDOMLY.
THEY DON'T KNOW
WHERE THE GOAL IS.
LIKE THE ANTS, THEY ARE
PROGRAMMED TO FOLLOW
THE LIGHT TRACES
OF THEIR COLLEAGUES.
THE BRIGHTER THE TRAIL
THE GREATER THE PROBABILITY
THAT A ROBOT
WILL FOLLOW IT.
THE ROBOTS RECOGNIZE
WHEN THEY ARE IN THE START,
OR DESTINATION, ZONE.
IT'S ONLY NOW THAT
THEY THEMSELVES
BEGIN TO
RELEASE MESSAGES.
OVER TIME, THE LIGHT TRAIL
BETWEEN THE START AND GOAL
BECOMES STRONGER AND
THE OTHER TRAILS FADE.
AFTER AROUND
20 MINUTES
ALL OF THE ROBOTS ARE
ON THE SHORTEST ROUTE.
THE ANT'S STRATEGY
HAS WORKED HERE TOO.
ROBOT SWARMS ARE
STILL IN THEIR INFANCY
BUT GREAT
TASKS AWAIT THEM.
TRANSLATOR: THERE HAS
BEEN MUCH DISCUSSION ABOUT
POSSIBLE FUTURE APPLICATIONS
FOR ROBOT SWARMS.
ONE OF THEM IS THE EXPLORATION
OF HOSTILE ENVIRONMENTS
SUCH AS
OTHER PLANETS.
ANOTHER AREA INVOLVES NANO
ROBOTS INJECTED INTO THE BODY.
IN SUCH SYSTEMS INDIVIDUAL
COMPONENTS WOULD BE TINY
AND, AS A RESULT, SO SIMPLE
THAT INDIVIDUAL ROBOTS
COULDN'T BE
CONTROLLED.
THE ONLY WAY TO CONTROL
SUCH SYSTEMS WOULD BE
TO USE THE INTERACTION
BETWEEN THE ROBOTS.
THE FUTURE BELONGS
TO ROBOT SWARMS.
AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF STUTTGART
RESEARCHERS ARE
GOING ONE STEP FURTHER.
FROM SWARMS
TO ORGANISMS.
TRANSLATOR: THE VISION IS TO
CREATE THE SELF-ORGANIZATION
OF INDIVIDUAL COMPONENTS
WITHOUT EXPLICITLY
PROGRAMMING THIS
SELF-ORGANIZATION.
IMAGINE A MEMBER OF A SWARM IS
ACTUALLY A CELL IN AN ORGANISM.
THEN YOU CAN IMAGINE A ROBOT
SWARM COMING TOGETHER...
AS A DOG MAYBE.
THIS DOG WILL BE ABLE
TO OVERCOME OBSTACLES
FAR BETTER THAN
AN INDIVIDUAL CELL.
THE SWARM HAS TO ADAPT
TO ITS ENVIRONMENT.
IT HAS TO DEVELOP
TO SURVIVE.
TRANSLATOR: IMAGINE
OUR SWARM IS RELEASED
ON INHOSPITABLE
TERRAIN.
SAY I DEPLOY 100 SWARM ROBOTS
IN RUGGED TERRAIN WHERE THEY
COULD ONLY SURVIVE IF THEY
CAME TOGETHER AS A SINGLE BODY
- BY FORMING A
SNAKE, FOR EXAMPLE.
AS A SNAKE THEY
COULD THEN SURVIVE.
THE ARTIFICIAL ORGANISMS
OF THE FUTURE WILL PROGRAM
THEMSELVES AND SHARE THEIR
ENERGY AND INFORMATION
INDEPENDENTLY AND
WITHOUT HUMAN CONTROL.
THE AIM IS TO HAVE THE
ROBOT ORGANISMS ADAPT
SPONTANEOUSLY TO NEW TASKS
WITHOUT IT BEING NECESSARY
FOR THEIR DEVELOPERS
TO PROGRAM THEM FIRST.
TRANSLATOR: THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT EVOLUTION HAS DONE.
IT WASN'T ALL
CONTROLLED FROM ABOVE.
A MACHINE EVOLUTION
IN FAST FORWARD.
HOW THIS COULD WORK
IN THE FUTURE IS BEING
RESEARCHED HERE BY
USING SMALL SWARM ROBOTS,
THE PREDECESSORS OF
THE FUTURE ROBOT CELLS.
WHAT IS HAPPENING
HERE IS ROBOT SEX.
STRATEGIES ARE BEING TESTED
WITH WHICH THE ROBOTS
CAN PASS ON THEIR
GENETIC INFORMATION.
THE POPULATION THAT IS
BETTER ADAPTED DOMINATES,
AS IN NATURAL
EVOLUTION.
FOR COMPUTER SCIENTIST
PAUL LEVY THIS IS ALSO
A FURTHER DEVELOPMENT
OF INTELLIGENCE.
TRANSLATOR: IT IS POSSIBLE
TO IMAGINE THAT A SWARM
WHICH IS CAPABLE OF
TAKING CARE OF ITSELF
WILL AUTOMATICALLY
SEEK OUT NEW TASKS,
AND THAT THE SAME SWARM
CAN SOLVE FURTHER PROBLEMS
BY LOOKING FOR NEW,
BETTER TERRITORIES
WHERE IT CAN
SUPPORT ITSELF BETTER.
THAT'S CONCEIVABLE AND THAT'S
AN INCREASE IN INTELLIGENCE.
INTELLIGENT ROBOT SWARMS THAT
DON'T NEED HUMAN SUPERVISION
ARE STILL A VISION
OF THE FUTURE.
BUT IT IS ALSO ONE THAT
TROUBLES MANY PEOPLE.
WHAT ABOUT
HUMANS?
TO WHAT EXTENT
DOES OUR BEHAVIOR
DIFFER FROM
THAT OF SWARMS?
WE ACT AS
INDIVIDUALS.
WE DECIDE RATIONALLY,
INDEPENDENTLY,
AND OF OUR
OWN FREE WILL.
THAT'S WHAT WE
THINK ANYWAY.
BUT DO WE REALLY ACT AS
INDIVIDUALLY AS WE ALWAYS THINK,
OR DO WE TOO, UNBEKNOWNST
TO US, FOLLOW SWARM LOGIC?
TRANSLATOR: I BECAME INTERESTED
IN THE EXTENT TO WHICH
PROCESSES IN SOCIETY COULD BE
UNDERSTOOD USING CONCEPTS
FROM COMPLEX SYSTEMS
FROM THE WORLD OF PHYSICS.
THESE SYSTEMS CONSIST OF
MANY COMPONENTS, SUCH AS
GAS OR LIQUID PARTICLES THAT
INTERACT WITH EACH OTHER.
IN PHYSICS YOU OFTEN FIND
STRUCTURE-FORMING PHENOMENA
SUCH AS WAVES
OR TURBULENCE,
AND THE SAME THING CAN
BE OBSERVED IN SOCIETY.
PHYSICIST DIRK HELBING HAS
BEEN RESEARCHING THE DYNAMICS
OF PEDESTRIAN MASSES
SINCE THE 1990'S.
FOR THE UNTRAINED EYE THIS
IS JUST CHAOTIC DISORDER.
TRANSLATOR: IT IS
VERY INTERESTING.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT RECORDINGS
OF PEDESTRIAN MASSES
IN FAST FORWARD, ACCELERATED
TEN TIMES FOR EXAMPLE,
YOU CAN SEE
THAT THE CHAOS
ISN'T AS GREAT AS
YOU INITIALLY IMAGINED.
BECAUSE THEN THE BRAIN BECOMES
CAPABLE OF RECOGNIZING PATTERNS.
IN DENSE CROWDS, MOVEMENT
PATTERNS, STRUCTURES FORM,
THAT WE AS INDIVIDUALS
ARE NOT AWARE OF.
NOBODY CONTROLS
THESE PATTERNS.
THEY FORM BY THEMSELVES
AS THE RESULT OF
COUNTLESS
INDIVIDUAL ACTIONS.
THEY ARE STRUCTURES BY WHICH
CROWDS REGULATE THEMSELVES
WITHOUT INDIVIDUALS
TAKING DELIBERATE ACTION.
TRANSLATOR: MANY SELF
ORGANIZATION PHENOMENA
THAT FORM IN
PEDESTRIAN CROWDS
ACTUALLY OPTIMIZE THE
FLOW OF PEDESTRIANS.
LOCAL ENCOUNTERS
BETWEEN PEDESTRIANS
LEAD TO EVASIVE MANEUVERS
AND ALL OF THEM PUT TOGETHER
PRODUCE AN
INTELLIGENT RESULT
WHERE THE DIFFERENT MOVEMENT
DIRECTIONS ARE SEPARATED.
OUR BEHAVIOR IS CONTROLLED
BY COLLECTIVE DYNAMICS.
INDIVIDUALS ARE NOT USUALLY
AWARE OF THESE DYNAMICS.
BUT THE RESULT OF
SELF-ORGANIZATION
ISN'T ALWAYS
INTELLIGENT.
TRAFFIC JAMS ARE ALSO THE
RESULT OF SUCH PROCESSES.
AS ARE MASS PANICS.
IN 2006 A DISASTER OCCURRED
AMONGST MUSLIM PILGRIMS
IN MECCA, CAUSING
ALMOST 400 DEATHS.
EDDY-LIKE PATTERNS FORMED
STRUCTURES WITH A HUGE FORCE.
INDIVIDUALS WERE
COMPLETELY AT THEIR MERCY.
TRANSLATOR: SELF
ORGANIZATION PROCESSES
CAN ALSO PRODUCE
UNFAVORABLE RESULTS.
MORE RESEARCH IS NEEDED
BECAUSE WE DON'T KNOW
UNDER WHAT CONDITIONS
THIS PRINCIPLE WORKS
AND UNDER WHAT
CONDITIONS IT DOESN'T WORK.
WHAT CAUSES
UNDESIRABLE RESULTS?
THE CALCULATION OF
SELF-ORGANIZATION PATTERNS
IN CROWDS
COULD HELP AVOID
SUCH UNCONTROLLABLE
SITUATIONS IN THE FUTURE.
HUMANS PHYSICALLY
DEMONSTRATE THE PROCESSES
THAT RESEMBLE THOSE OF
SWARMS IN CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
BUT DO WE ALSO DEMONSTRATE
SWARM BEHAVIOR IN OUR THOUGHTS?
IS THERE REALLY SUCH A THING
AS THE "WISDOM OF THE MANY?"
ONE EXPERIMENT IN ZURICH IS
EXAMINING FOR THE FIRST TIME
WHETHER PEOPLES' DECISIONS CAN
BE CONTROLLED BY COLLECTIVE
DYNAMICS AND WHETHER THEY
REALLY ARE SMARTER TOGETHER.
TWENTY TEST SUBJECTS HAVE
BEEN ASKED TO GIVE AN ESTIMATE.
THE CLOSER IT IS TO
THE ACTUAL FIGURE
THE HIGHER THE
WINNINGS AT THE END.
FIRST ALL THE PARTICIPANTS HAVE
TO GIVE THEIR OWN ESTIMATE.
BUT THEY ARE ALL CONNECTED
TO THE OTHER PARTICIPANTS.
AFTER EVERY ROUND THE TEST
SUBJECTS CAN SEE ON THE SCREEN
WHAT VALUES
THE OTHERS GAVE.
IF IT TURNS OUT THAT THE
AVERAGE OF ALL THE ESTIMATES
IS BETTER THAN THE
INDIVIDUAL ESTIMATES,
THERE REALLY WOULD
BE SUCH A THING
AS A "WISDOM
OF THE MANY".
IF THE PRINCIPLE OF
COLLECTIVE INTELLIGENCE
WERE TO WORK IN HUMANS
IT COULD BE APPLIED
IN USEFUL WAYS IN
BUSINESS AND SOCIETY,
BUT THE RESULT OF
THE EXPERIMENT
IS LESS CLEAR
THAN EXPECTED.
TRANSLATOR: WE FOUND
OUT IN OUR EXPERIMENT
THAT THERE IS A COLLECTIVE,
OR SWARM, BEHAVIOR.
THE QUESTION IS, IS
THE BEHAVIOR FAVORABLE?
DO WE GET A "WISDOM
OF THE MANY"?
OUR RESULT
IS DEFLATING.
SOMETIMES THE GROUP IDENTIFIES
THE CORRECT SOLUTION,
BUT SOMETIMES
IT IS WAY OFF.
SO WE SHOULD
BE CAREFUL ABOUT
RELYING ON A
WISDOM OF THE MANY.
WHETHER THE COLLECTIVE IS REALLY
WISER THAN THE INDIVIDUAL
IS SOMETHING NOBODY CAN
YET ANSWER WITH CERTAINTY.
BUT WHAT IS CERTAIN
IS THAT HUMAN BEINGS
ALSO BEHAVE LIKE A SWARM
WHEN MAKING DECISIONS.
NOT ALWAYS, BUT MORE
OFTEN THAN WE THINK.
WE HAVE BEEN LED BY THE NOTION
THAT INTELLIGENT BEHAVIOR
HAS TO BE CONTROLLED BY AN
INTELLIGENT CONSCIOUSNESS.
BUT STRATEGIES FOR SUCCESS
ON THE PART OF SWARMS
SHOW THAT THAT'S
NOT THE ONLY WAY.
IT'S A KIND OF INTELLIGENCE
THAT SEEMS STRANGE
AND ALIEN AT
FIRST GLANCE.
BUT IN TRUTH IT'S CLOSER
TO US THAN WE THINK.
WE CAN LEARN A LOT FROM IT
AND WE'VE ONLY JUST BEGUN.